Eighty percent of young people at some point will experiment with drugs or
alcohol. So I would imagine many of us have made that choice so to speak of
putting ourselves at risk of the exposure of drugs or alcohol. And so
you could say that everyone who's ever made a choice to try a drug or to try
alcohol, you know, should be blamed for that, but that is most of society.
The brain structure and function literally changes with ongoing drug or alcohol use,
and it's the exact same thing you see with a heart after a heart attack for
example, where literally the function of the heart changes once the disease is
developed. This whole area now where there's no color has been diseased.
So the World Health Organization looked at 18 stigmatized conditions across the globe
including being a prisoner, having hiv/aids, and drug addiction was more
stigmatized and all of those things. But we know that stigma is one of the main
reasons that people don't access treatment, and also why people wait a
long time before they come into care. But as we understand and hopefully spread
the message that this is a chronic disease is that there's treatment out
there, treatment works, and the important thing is coming into care and coming in
as early as possible.